Integrate Civic into Serverless Website 2 (#113)
ippontech/blog-usa: posts/integrating-civic-into-a-static-serverless-website-part-2-of-2.md

---
authors:
- Tyler John Haden
tags:
- aws
- serverless
- security
- blockchain
date: 
title: "Integrating Civic into a Static Serverless Website (part 2 of 2)"
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tylerjohnhaden/blog-usa/master/images/2019/02/civic_jumbo.png
---

This is the second part of this tutorial ([first part here](https://blog.ippon.tech/integrating-civic-into-a-static-serverless-website-part-2-of-2/)). By now your static website should be up and running. All that is left is to generate our API backend using Serverless. In the picure below, the user can complete the first two steps, but the third will fail for now.

# Project Architecture

![missing pic: Civic Architecture](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tylerjohnhaden/blog-usa/master/images/2019/02/civic_architecture.png)

# Create a backend to verify identity

The way we designed our architecture, the backend API is a completely separate component from our static website. This offers several advantages and is common in a serverless architecture. Of course there is only one API call needed so it is not a great concern, but scalability should always be considered.

> Our solution is to use AWS Lambda to both interface with Civic and to perform our backend "color processing". Writing a special [Lambda authorizer function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/apigateway-use-lambda-authorizer.html) will best suite our needs for interfacing with Civic, although we could use one function for the entire backend. Isolating our app secrets to one runtime, and abstracting away Civic is desirable and will increase extensibility if we were to add more functionality to the app later on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our solution is to use AWS Lambda to both interface with Civic and to perform our backend "color processing". Writing a special [Lambda authorizer function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/apigateway-use-lambda-authorizer.html) will best suit our needs for interfacing with Civic, although we could use one function for the entire backend. Isolating our app secrets to one runtime, and abstracting away Civic is desirable and will increase extensibility if we were to add more functionality to the app later on.
```

Using the Serverless framework, we can specify both functions, setup CORS, and even auto configure our custom domain in the API Gateway. For a more general tutorial on Serverless, checkout [the first steps with the Serverless Framework](https://blog.ippon.tech/first-steps-with-the-serverless-framework/) or you can get more information on [using JWT tokens as authentication in a serverless environment](https://yos.io/2017/09/03/serverless-authentication-with-jwt/) if you would like.

### Start a Serverless application

To start, install the [Serverless npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/serverless). I won't go into detail about npm or Node (maybe [this article](https://www.w3schools.com/nodejs/nodejs_npm.asp) would be a place to start).

`npm install -g serverless`

p.s. You will be able to use `sls` and `serverless` commands interchangeably.

> We could use a template to generate the directory and config file, which would take the command `sls create --template aws-nodejs --path ServerlessCivicApp`, but we're gonna change almost everything generated. You could see Serverless's [list of templates](https://github.com/serverless/serverless/tree/master/lib/plugins/create/templates) for possible template options. They support a large range of languages and hosting services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We could use a template to generate the directory and config file, which would take the command `sls create --template aws-nodejs --path ServerlessCivicApp`, but we're going to change almost everything generated. You could see Serverless's [list of templates](https://github.com/serverless/serverless/tree/master/lib/plugins/create/templates) for possible template options. They support a large range of languages and hosting services.
```

Our project structure should look like the following.
```text
ServerlessCivicApp: 
  - functions
      - auth.js
      - color.js
  - package.json
  - serverless.yml
```

`package.json` just needs to keep track of our dependencies. (don't forget to `npm install`!)

```json
{
  "name": "serverless-civic-app",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "dependencies": {
    "civic-sip-api": "^1.1.0",
    "jsonwebtoken": "^8.4.0"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "serverless-domain-manager": "^2.6.13"
  }
}
```

`serverless.yml` lets us configure the functions, environments, AWS settings, etc. [This Serverless article](https://serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/events/apigateway/) is probably the best resource for understanding the layout of this file. 

```yaml
service: my-serverless-civic-app

provider:
  name: aws
  runtime: nodejs8.10
  stage: dev
  region: us-east-1

functions:
  color-identification:
    handler: functions/color.colorIdentification
  custom-civic-authorizer:
    handler: functions/auth.customCivicAuthorizer
```

> Here is the core of the config file. We will be adding more later too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the core of the config file. We will be adding more to this later.
```

- `service` is just the title that is used to generate various resource names in AWS. It should be descriptive and will tie each deployment together (if you keep deploying from the same project).
- `provider` lets Serverless know where to deploy our resources. `name` and `runtime` are the only ones required, as the others have defaults. 
- `functions` lists out our lambdas. We only have two so you can see where Serverless picks up the function handlers. Those functions will need to be exported from each file as we will see later.

### Write our Lambda authorizer

> A good resource that AWS provides for learning how to define Lambda functions using NodeJS can be found [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/nodejs-prog-model-handler.html). The main pieces of information that we need to know are what the function signatures should be and how to return or error out of the function. All of the code here will be taking advantage of [ES2017 async and await](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function), but there is no problem with refactoring with promises and callbacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A good resource that AWS provides for learning how to define Lambda functions using NodeJS can be found [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/nodejs-prog-model-handler.html). The main pieces of information that we need to know are what the function signatures should be and how to return or error out of the function. All of the code here will be taking advantage of [ES2017 async and await](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function), but this can be refactored to use promises and callbacks instead.
```

```javascript
'use strict';

const civicSip = require('civic-sip-api');
const jwt = require('jsonwebtoken');

const civicClient = civicSip.newClient({
    appId: process.env.CIVIC_APP_ID,
    appSecret: process.env.CIVIC_APP_SECRET,
    prvKey: process.env.CIVIC_PRIVATE_SIGNING_KEY,
});

exports.customCivicAuthorizer = async event => {};
```

We are going to use environment variables for injecting app secrets and the app id. This follows best practices and Serverless can easily pull these values from our AWS Parameter Store. The asynchronous function `customCivicAuthorizer` will be used as the actual Lambda function handler. In `serverless.yml`, we need to link the Parameter Store values to the function variables.

```yaml
...

functions:
  ...
  custom-civic-authorizer:
    handler: functions/auth.customCivicAuthorizer
    environment:
      CIVIC_APP_ID: ${ssm:/tylerjohnhaden/civic-color/APP_ID}
      CIVIC_APP_SECRET: ${ssm:/tylerjohnhaden/civic-color/APP_SECRET~true}
      CIVIC_PRIVATE_SIGNING_KEY: ${ssm:/tylerjohnhaden/civic-color/PRIVATE_SIGNING_KEY~true}
```

> Add the above environment variables. Serverless allows us to add them to the [individual functions, or to the whole stage](https://serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/guide/variables/) but we can improve security by limiting the scope of the app secrets to just the authorizer. The `ssm` links to AWS System Manager Parameter Store, and the `~true` tells Serverless to [use your local credentials to decrypt vis KMS](https://hackernoon.com/you-should-use-ssm-parameter-store-over-lambda-env-variables-5197fc6ea45b).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the above environment variables. Serverless allows us to add them to the [individual functions, or to the whole stage](https://serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/guide/variables/) but we can improve security by limiting the scope of the app secrets to just the authorizer. The `ssm` links to AWS System Manager Parameter Store, and the `~true` tells Serverless to [use your local credentials to decrypt via KMS](https://hackernoon.com/you-should-use-ssm-parameter-store-over-lambda-env-variables-5197fc6ea45b).
```

Let us continue with defining the handler. According to [AWS's authorizer documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/api-gateway-lambda-authorizer-input.html), the Lambda authorizer input `event` will have the following pattern:

```json
{
    "type": "TOKEN",
    "authorizationToken": "<caller-supplied-token>",
    "methodArn": "arn:aws:execute-api:<regionId>:<accountId>:<apiId>/<stage>/<method>/<resourcePath>"
}
```

> Once we get the token from the input, we can pass it directly to Civic. If this fails, we assume Civic rejected the token and return a `401 Unauthorized` response. Without adding CORS headers to this API response, the browser will actually throw a cross-origin error instead of a 401. This is fixed by setting default 4XX response CORS in API Gateway, which we can do using our Serverless config but more on this later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we get the token from the input, we can pass it directly to Civic. If this fails, we assume Civic rejected the token and return a `401 Unauthorized` response. Without adding CORS headers to this API response, the browser will actually throw a cross-origin error instead of a 401. This is fixed by setting default 4XX response CORS in API Gateway, which we can do using our Serverless config. More on this later.
```

        // hash the user's unique ID and our secret together to generate the user's unique color hash
        // ps Node's crypto doesn't store intermediate state so we can't "cache" the secret part :(
        const colorIdDigest = crypto
            .createHash('sha256')
            .update(process.env.CIVIC_PRIVATE_SIGNING_KEY, 'ascii')
            .update(anonymousUserId, 'ascii')
            .digest('hex');

        // take last 24 bits of entropy and cast to integer as color identification
        const colorId = parseInt(colorIdDigest.slice(-6), 16);

        console.info(`Success! Turned userId: ${anonymousUserId} into colorId: ${colorId}`);

        return {
            statusCode: 200,
            headers: {
                'Access-Control-Allow-Credentials': 'true',
                'Access-Control-Allow-Origin': 'https://color.tylerjohnhaden.com',
            },
            body: JSON.stringify({
                yourUserIdentity: anonymousUserId,
                yourColorIdentity: colorId,
            }),
        };

    } catch (error) {
        throw new Error(`Unable to hash userId: ${anonymousUserId} into colorId because: ${JSON.stringify(error)}`);
    }
};
```

> Notice the headers returned if successful. These only need to be added if using proxy integration vs standard Lambda. Set the origin to where ever the static site is served at.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice the headers returned if successful. These only need to be added if using proxy integration vs standard Lambda. Set the origin to the URI where the static site is served.
```
